# verilogFPGA Using verilog to synthesize to FPGAFPGAs have been around for a long time. These days I think how nice it would have been to have FPGAs when I was doing digital interface design between Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) and systems being tested.  I remember many hours breadboarding and testing interfaces.  The ATE like the ones I used do not exist anymore. They have been replaced with smaller micro device systems. Lots of systems are now built in self-test.Anyhow, I have been thinking and reading about FPGAs for longer than I like to say.  So, it is time to get a couple of FPGAs to play with. For the first phase of my FPGA plans I started with a iCESugar-nano and the Alchitry Cu with the IO Board. Both have Lattice ice40 type FPGA chips.It has been at least six weeks of playing around with these FPGA boards. All I can say is that it is very cool.  I started with icestudio a good way if you do not like coding. I quickly moved to apio and stayed with for awhile so that I would not have to learn command line syntax for yosys open synthesis suite.  Played a little with OSS CAD Suite on a Window system. Had a lot of fun with it, but need to go to Linux if you want to take full advantage of the make scripting.I have been looking for an excuse for getting a raspberry pi 5 and this maybe it. Setup my raspberry pi 4 and before madly running scripts to install everything.  Look in the raspberry pi application package software to see what is there for FPGAs. So, found everything needed for the FPGAs that were being used.  Tested about 70% of what was using apio on windows machine.  Looking good, do not even need a raspberry 5.  The bonus for me was the miniaturization of the FPGA dev setup.In order to run the Verilog under apio, remove the apio.ini and setup a makefile for the OSS CAD Suite.